---
layout: post
title: backbone with rails intro
tags: [backbone, rails, javascript, mvc]
---

I recently added backbonejs to one of my rails apps. Here is a description of
the process that can maybe help you transition to adding backbone or another JS
MVC framework to your app! I will break up this article into a series of a few
articles. You can check out my current progress in the 'backbone' branch of this
repository:
<https://github.com/mcfiredrill/forttree/tree/backbone>

Many articles have stated this, but if you arent aware, you need. to know that backbone thinks about mvc in a different way than rails. The views in backbone are more like controllers in rails, in that they set up data for display. Templates in backbone are more like views in rails, they are just simple templates with js embedded for displaying data. There is no controller really in backbone, although there is a router, which does some of the work you might see done in a Rails controller.

Honestly this seems a little better to me, I think that controllers in Rails often have too much responsibility. This seems like a decent way to divide up the work a little better.

I went with this Gem for adding backbone to rails.
<https://github.com/meleyal/backbone-on-rails>

Now, your first instinct might be to create a backbone model for every rails model that you have. However, there is really no need to create an exact mapping to your frontend backbone models and your backend.

By default, Rails will not fetch your associations when returning JSON. A nice
way to control the JSON that rails controllers give you is with the
activemodel::serializers gem.
<https://github.com/rails-api/active_model_serializers>

Additionally, backbone does not have any built in support for relations, really.
There are a couple of libraries like
[backbone-relational](https://github.com/PaulUithol/Backbone-relational) and a couple simple
ways to roll it on your own. I will go into more details in the next post in
this series.

My application that I am converting is a forum application. There are 3 main models, boards, threads and posts. Boards have many threads and threads have many posts. I will start out by just converting the boards to backbone.

First you need to create a backbone model and collection. In rails, there is no separate classes for single models and collections of models, but backbone makes this distinction.

{% highlight javascript %}
// app/assets/javascripts/models/board.js
var Board = Backbone.Model.extend({
});
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight javascript %}
// app/assets/javascripts/collections/boards.js
Forttree.Collections.Boards = Backbone.Collection.extend({
  model: Board,
  url: '/boards'
});
{% endhighlight %}

We'll start with converting the index action to backbone. You can create a view
for the boards index.

{% highlight javascript %}
// app/assets/javascripts/views/boards_index.js
Forttree.Views.BoardsIndex = Backbone.View.extend({
  render: function() {
    this.$el.html(JST['boards/index']({ boards: this.collection });
    return this;
  }
});
{% endhighlight %}

Then set up your boards router for the index action.

{% highlight javascript %}
// app/assets/javascripts/router/boards.js
Forttree.Routers.Boards = Backbone.Router.extend({
  routes: {
    "": "index"
  },
  index: function() {
    var view = new Forttree.Views.BoardsIndex({ collection: Forttree.boards });
    $('body').html(view.render().$el);
  }
});
{% endhighlight %}

And finally the simple template.

{% highlight html %}
<!-- app/assets/templates/boards/index.jst.ejs -->
<h1>boards</h1>
<% boards.each(function(board) { %>
  <%= board.escape('name') %>
<% }); %>
{% endhighlight %}

You can bootstrap your app with some data in your rails template:

{% highlight html %}
<!-- app/views/layouts/application.html.erb -->
    <%= javascript_tag do %>
      Forttree.initialize({boards: <%== @boards.to_json %> });
    <% end %>
{% endhighlight %}

Visit your app at root and you will see backbone has rendered the boards. I will write another article next, covering setting up the associations for this app.
